so continuing on with classes so what we are going to do is use an example to work with a record
collection to show how classes can be
used together and I'm also gonna take this
opportunity to talk about doc strings
what they are and what information
should be included in them so lets go
ahead and create a new class for this
so I'm gonna come over as I always done new
Python file and will
call this one song and we'll start by
writing the class so....
...
....
...so that is our doc string
...so lets create our __init__  which I said wasn't going to
say the underscore underscore again so....
....
...and lets write the doc string for the init method....
....then we need to initialise
our data attributes so...
....
...so their really shouldn't be much to say at this point about this class and that's
because the doc string should say it all
and in fact the doc strings in this class are
probably a little bit to verbose but I
just wanted to show you that anyway
....so their really
shouldn't be too much to say about this
class and that's because the doc string
should really say it at all and in fact what I've done I probably have gone overboard
here and made the doc strings a little
bit too verbose here so doc strings
themselves can be used to document
modules functions classes and methods
and really should provide information
that is useful to understanding what the
object does and also how to use it now you
should also include other details that
aren't obvious such as what will happen
if a value wasn't specified now writing good
documentation is a skill in itself and it can be
very difficult  to document your own code
and because you know how it works and
fits together well you did create it after
all so large companies just out of interest will often
employ technical writers to produce
the documentation so someone else who creates a
documentation who didn't create the
original program so a description of
doc stings and guidelines for writing them
is in pep 257 so if we look at that
paste it on the screen the links are in the Resources section
so the pep documents and semantics and
conventions associated with python doc
strings well thats actually fairly short
documents as you can see it doesn't really go into a lot of details certainly compared to some
other peps there but I definitely
recommend that you read it to specially
as you can skip the final section on handling
doc string indentation that's this bit here so you don't need to worry about that too much getting
back to our code so a doc string should
always use triple quotes and that keeps
your doc strings consistent with everyone
else's and also means you can include quotes in the
documentation as well now if
you intend to use escape characters you
know such as /t or /n in your doc
string then use r with 3 quotes to make it a raw
string and lets just see what I mean so I'm going to create a new
class new file and call this one demo I just wanna show you how this works so....
....
...and will print that out to see if that it's working so if we run that and run demo
string split and tab you can see its gone to the next line as well but I just want to show you how to create this raw string
that I just talk about so...
you notice how IntelliJ automatically added the second
one and if I take the contents down
here in the first string so I'm actually
copying and pasting that I'm gonna paste that
into their and if we print the raw string and run this is just to see the difference so as
you can see by pasting that in there
like that what I've done is we've got
Python to not treat it with those
escape characters so the /n on line 1and the /t's we're
treated correctly by Python and
treated as the carriage return and also
the tab characters but when we put this
in this raw string the /n was
ignored and just was treated as a regular character so raw string saw are useful when you don't want Python to treat
the backslash escaped character in a
special way so when the string literal
is defined without the r prefix as you
saw these /n causes a
line break and /t causes tabs to be included in
the string and that's the output at the bottom left of
the screen so I really just provided this as a
convenience other ways you have to enter
the ASCII codes for those characters
which not only make the code messy but
they cause problems on different
operating systems so if Python didn't
provide a mechanism for escaping certain
characters we have to probably create
strings like this is so lets just write some more code so...
....
..and we got the same response same output as
we got for a sting when we printed that out and of course that's sort of shows you that by
Python letting us put a /n and a /t in that format it saves us from
having to write a string in this format having to add this characters
via ASCII codes to create a string that
way so in other words it's really adding
that as a inconvenience for us a shortcut to
put those escape characters and if you
wanted to and again using a raw string with
the r in front of it enables us to
effectively ignore those escape
characters but it gets worse with
these characters because not only was
it annoying to type because obviously a lot
more code than in the first example
on line 1 but it's also wrong on
windows and that is because Linux and Mac use a line feed character which is the ASCII
code for ten as you can see on line 7 character 10 to start a new line but
Windows users uses 2 characters a carriage
return followed by line feed so
to do the equivalent in Windows its
character 13 + character 10 or ASCII
symbol 13 and ASCII 10 now reasons why
Windows does this are historical and really
dates back to the time before screens
when computers were program using
teletype terminals so it was
necessary to return the carriage to the
left hand side and in feed down one line and that explains
Windows Control carriage return line
feed combination that's the
character 13 and character 10 now UNIX drivers started automatically using the carriage
returns so it wasn't necessary to have it in
the file now when you use a backslash
n Pyton takes care of this for you
and the same code will work on all three
operating systems in other words it
knows by you just putting a /n
then it needs to essentially put a character 13 and a character 10 and therefore on
Windows
and to leave it just a character 10 for Mac
and Linux enough of the history well
almost that last bit of history may
be an interesting but probably of very
little use but there's a bit more
history that is important I'm getting to
that now these raw strings literals that we've used on line 4 their introduced
in Python 2 mainly for using regular
expressions now we will be covering regular
expressions later in the course for now
all we really need to know about regular
expressions is that the strings that
contain a lot of back / characters now
because the backslashes used to escape
the next character in a string if you
actually want a backslash then you have to
double it up and I'll show you what I mean so
lets continue on here so we're going to type....
....and see what happens
notice as what happened their so this is a
backslash followed by some texts that's
because the way that we've type that in the
/ f has been treaded or the f that is after
the / has been treated as a
control character and we can't see that on
the screen but the bottom line is the
f hasn't been treated as a regular f
in that case so if we want to use a
backslash character would have to do
something like this so....
....
....and if we run that
you could see we got it now appearing so / is
now being shown because we've
used to backslashes and the f is now
showing and incidentally in the previous
example a strange character
may appear on Linux and Windows it
doesn't appear as you can see under Mac
right here theirs probably a strange
characters so if your seeing that
looks a little bit like a or just a
strange character the reason for that is Python interpreting /f as an ASCII 6
which is an echo used by device to
acknowledge receiving of a transmission in
the early days so you may or may not see
that but the point was that it was
basically not showing a regular f but
by putting two backslashes we can see
that its working correctly so again
the point of this raw string literals
are introduced to remove the need to
double up backslashes in a string like
we've had to do their on line 13 so
why now you probably asking why is the
fact that raw stings that were introduced
to deal with regular expressions
important well although regular
expressions used a lot of backslashes
you can't have one at the end of a regular
expressions string now as a result the
Python raw string process it but doesn't suppress escaping if the backslashes the
last character in the string and to show you what I mean I'm going to show by just type in a bit of code we can get it
to show an error that you may not
think should be an error so....
....so Python treats the final backslashes as escape character
and its escaping the final close quote
so consequently the string isn't
terminated
so hence we are getting an error if that makes sense so if you want to end a string with a backslash you have to
escape it even when using raw string
literal in other words we have to put a
double backslash in there and that
fixes the problem now raw string
literals are sometimes used to specify
file paths in Windows which used the
backslash character rather than a
forward slash two separate the directory
names but it's not actually necessary to
do this because once again Python takes
care of it for us but if you do and your
Python ends up with a backslash such a
a c:/ for example then you need
to double up that final backslash
so I'll be referring to these raw type literals because there's really no such
thing as a raw string type in Python their all just string which is really
telling Python to alter how it
interprets them and that's why I had to
copy and paste the strings rather than
somehow convert them into a raw string when
initializing the raw variables there's
no such conversion because there's no
raw type to convert to
their are prefix that we're putting you can see on
line 16 really only applies to string
literals to tell Python on how to interpret
so pep 257 that we saw earlier in
this video was written along time ago
and the comment about using a u prefix
doesn't apply to Python 3 if you go back you can read up on prefix all strings in Python
3 are already Unicode that's what I
was referring to so I'm going to end the video
here now in the next video we are going to switch back to
the doc string and talk more about a how you
got about documenting your classes and methods
and functions etc see you in the next
video